Welcome back! In this step we will understand another important concept called content negotiation.
We talked about the fact that in REST resources are the most important things and these resources
can have multiple representations.
Until now in all our examples we have been using JSON.
However, let's say I would want a XML representation of a specific resource.
How do we do that?
And what are the complexities in doing that?
That's what we would discuss in this specific step.
Until now, we have been executing a lot of get requests, right?
So, we said get and when we said Send it was getting the content back.
Where are we specifying that it's JSON?
Actually we are not.
So if you look at the headers we are not really specifying what we would want to accept.
So let's now say accept application slash JSON and click send. You’d see that I would get the same response
back.
Let's just say I'm going to send an accept header saying application slash XML
I am saying I would want a XML  response.
What do you get?
You get a status of four O six.
Not acceptable.
So what it's saying is the requested resource is only capable of generating content according to the
accept headers sent in the request. What it's saying is this XML, application dot xml is not a valid
accept header.
So we don't support XML.
That's basically what it's saying now.
All our services that we created until now only work with the JSON input and the JSON output.
So we're using the JSON representation of the resource.
If you want to add XML format to one of the representations that is supported, how do we do that?
All that we need to do is to make a simple jar available in our pom dot xml. Let’s do that right now.
So let's go to the pom dot xml. All the binding from JSON to objects and objects to JSON is happening
through something called Jackson.
Jackson does this binding.
There's another simple dependency which we can add in here which can help us with handling the XML
conversion as well.
You can do a simple Google search to get the group id and artifact id. It’s Jackson data format XML. So
we would want to use that.
I’ll take one of these versions. We will not go..
We are not going to specify the version as such. All that we would need is the group id and the artifact id.
So I am going to pick this group id and artifact id from here.
Now I can put that in here. I’ll remove the comment. I’ll remove the version because the version we’ll get from
spring boot dependency management.
So all that we did until now is just added in com fasterxml jckson data format. Jackson data format xml
all that you need to do is search for these in Google you should be able to get the group Id or you
can type this in.
So it's com faster XML
Jackson data format group id. The artifact id is Jackson data format XML.
If I save this,
Make sure that you restart the application. I'm relaunching it.
Cool! The application has restarted and now I'm going to send a request for XML representation.
Awesome!
Now you're getting the data back in XML format as well.
So let's try other requests as well so users slash one.
Does this work? Wow! this works.
So you can see that I'm getting a resource back. Id is one.
Name is Adam. You have the birth date, you have the links and other stuff as well.
And we can even do a post. Before I do a post,
I’ll do a get to local host slash users.
And I would want to pick up a header accept and we’d be accepting applications xml and send. I would need to
pick up this structure. So I would want to create a post request. In the body, I would want to send raw
and I'm now sending application XML. That's the format that we're using here.
And I would not need to set the Id. And I’ll send the name as Ranga.
So what we are sending is XML representation. And let's see the header. What it's there.
So the content type is application XML, the accept header is application XML and the body contains
the user that I would want to create. I have to post to slash users, right? So I’m doing a post to slash users with the body as this.
And you can see that the resource is created. The status is 201 created.
And I can go ahead and now execute this request.
And you’d see that I'm getting a new user back.
So there is the third item which is present in here. Id four, name Ranga, birthdate. We have added in content
negotiation feature to our RESTful service as well.
So we use it as well.
So based on what is in accept, whether it's JSON or XML.
All that we needed to do was to just add in Jackson data format XML dependency to our application.
And we are now able to support both the XML and JSON presentations for your resource.
Until the next step, bye-bye.